README.md, before:

# qMRI Colors

A Python package providing custom colormaps (lipari and navia) for quantitative MRI visualization in both matplotlib and vispy.

## Installation

Install the package using uv (recommended) or pip:

```bash
# Using uv
uv add qmricolors

# Using pip
pip install qmricolors
```

For development:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd qmricolors
uv sync

# Install in development mode to use examples
uv pip install -e .
```

## Usage

Simply import the package to automatically register the custom colormaps:

```python
import qmricolors
```

### Matplotlib Usage

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
import qmricolors

# Create sample data
data = np.random.rand(100, 100)

# Use the custom colormaps
plt.figure(figsize=(12, 5))

plt.subplot(1, 2, 1)
plt.imshow(data, cmap='lipari')
plt.title('Lipari Colormap')
plt.colorbar()

plt.subplot(1, 2, 2)
plt.imshow(data, cmap='navia')
plt.title('Navia Colormap')
plt.colorbar()

plt.show()
```

### VisPy Usage

```python
from vispy import app, scene
from vispy.color import get_colormap
import numpy as np
import qmricolors

# Create sample data
data = np.random.rand(100, 100)

# Get custom colormap
lipari_cmap = get_colormap('lipari')

# Create visualization
canvas = scene.SceneCanvas(keys='interactive', show=True)
view = canvas.central_widget.add_view()
image = scene.visuals.Image(data, cmap=lipari_cmap, parent=view.scene)
view.camera = scene.PanZoomCamera(aspect=1)
view.camera.set_range()

app.run()
```

**Note**: If the VisPy window doesn't appear, this may be due to GUI backend issues. Try:
1. Installing a GUI backend: `pip install PyQt5` or `pip install PySide2`
2. On macOS, you may need to run Python from the terminal rather than an IDE
3. Use the simple test script: `python test_vispy_simple.py`

### Direct API Usage

```python
import qmricolors

# Get colormap for specific backend
lipari_mpl = qmricolors.get_colormap('lipari', backend='matplotlib')
navia_vispy = qmricolors.get_colormap('navia', backend='vispy')

# List available colormaps
print(qmricolors.AVAILABLE_CMAPS)  # ['lipari', 'navia']

# Register colormaps manually (if needed)
qmricolors.register_all_colormaps()
```

## Available Colormaps

- **lipari**: A blue-to-white colormap suitable for quantitative MRI visualization
- **navia**: A red-to-white colormap suitable for quantitative MRI visualization

## Customizing Colormaps

To use your own colormap data, replace the CSV files in the package:

1. `qmricolors/lipari.csv`
2. `qmricolors/navia.csv`

The CSV format should have columns `r`, `g`, `b` with values between 0 and 1:

```csv
r,g,b
0.0,0.0,0.2
0.0,0.1,0.4
0.0,0.2,0.6
...
```

## Example

Run the included example script to see the colormaps in action:

```bash
python example.py
```

## Dependencies

- matplotlib >= 3.10.3
- vispy >= 0.15.2
- numpy >= 1.21.0

## License

[Add your license information here]

## Contributing

[Add contribution guidelines here]

Commit message:

Update README to enhance descriptions of colormaps and add references

README.md, after:

# qMRI Colors

A Python package providing the recommended colormaps from [Fuderer et al. (2024)](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39415361/) for quantitative MRI visualization. This package makes it easy to use the scientifically-optimized lipari and navia colormaps in both matplotlib and vispy, eliminating the need for manual colormap registration in each project.

The colormaps are based on the research presented in "Colormaps for quantitative magnetic resonance imaging" (Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, 2024) and are sourced from the [colorResources repository](https://github.com/mfuderer/colorResources).

## Installation

Install the package using uv (recommended) or pip:

```bash
# Using uv
uv add qmricolors

# Using pip
pip install qmricolors
```

For development:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd qmricolors
uv sync

# Install in development mode to use examples
uv pip install -e .
```

## Usage

Simply import the package to automatically register the custom colormaps:

```python
import qmricolors
```

### Matplotlib Usage

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
import qmricolors

# Create sample data
data = np.random.rand(100, 100)

# Use the custom colormaps
plt.figure(figsize=(12, 5))

plt.subplot(1, 2, 1)
plt.imshow(data, cmap='lipari')
plt.title('Lipari Colormap')
plt.colorbar()

plt.subplot(1, 2, 2)
plt.imshow(data, cmap='navia')
plt.title('Navia Colormap')
plt.colorbar()

plt.show()
```

### VisPy Usage

```python
from vispy import app, scene
from vispy.color import get_colormap
import numpy as np
import qmricolors

# Create sample data
data = np.random.rand(100, 100)

# Get custom colormap
lipari_cmap = get_colormap('lipari')

# Create visualization
canvas = scene.SceneCanvas(keys='interactive', show=True)
view = canvas.central_widget.add_view()
image = scene.visuals.Image(data, cmap=lipari_cmap, parent=view.scene)
view.camera = scene.PanZoomCamera(aspect=1)
view.camera.set_range()

app.run()
```

**Note**: If the VisPy window doesn't appear, this may be due to GUI backend issues. Try:
1. Installing a GUI backend: `pip install PyQt5` or `pip install PySide2`
2. On macOS, you may need to run Python from the terminal rather than an IDE
3. Use the simple test script: `python test_vispy_simple.py`

### Direct API Usage

```python
import qmricolors

# Get colormap for specific backend
lipari_mpl = qmricolors.get_colormap('lipari', backend='matplotlib')
navia_vispy = qmricolors.get_colormap('navia', backend='vispy')

# List available colormaps
print(qmricolors.AVAILABLE_CMAPS)  # ['lipari', 'navia']

# Register colormaps manually (if needed)
qmricolors.register_all_colormaps()
```

## Available Colormaps

- **lipari**: A scientifically-optimized colormap for quantitative MRI visualization
- **navia**: A scientifically-optimized colormap for quantitative MRI visualization

These colormaps were designed based on perceptual uniformity principles and extensive testing for quantitative medical imaging, as described in [Fuderer et al. (2024)](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39415361/).

## Customizing Colormaps

To use your own colormap data, replace the CSV files in the package:

1. `qmricolors/lipari.csv`
2. `qmricolors/navia.csv`

The CSV format should have columns `r`, `g`, `b` with values between 0 and 1:

```csv
r,g,b
0.0,0.0,0.2
0.0,0.1,0.4
0.0,0.2,0.6
...
```

## Example

Run the included example script to see the colormaps in action:

```bash
python example.py
```

## Dependencies

- matplotlib >= 3.10.3
- vispy >= 0.15.2
- numpy >= 1.21.0

## References

- Fuderer, M., et al. (2024). Colormaps for quantitative magnetic resonance imaging. *Magnetic Resonance in Medicine*. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39415361/
- Original colormap resources: https://github.com/mfuderer/colorResources

## License

[Add your license information here]

## Contributing

[Add contribution guidelines here]
